# Introduction # {#mainpage}

This is the main page of the HTML documentation for the code \theCode.
It has been generated by using DoxyGen-1.8.6 or higher
(http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/manual/install.html) and the command

       make doc

The source file corresponding to this page is located under 'doc/html/index.html'
of the main \theCode folder.

\theCode is an implementation of the nuclear energy density functional
theory (DFT), where the energy of the nucleus is obtained by integration over
space of some phenomenological energy density, which is itself a functional of
the intrinsic neutron and proton densities. In \theCode, the energy density
derives either from the zero-range Skyrme or finite range Gogny effective
two-body interaction. Nuclear superfluidity is treated at the
Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov (HFB) approximation. In the case of Skyrme
functionals, particle number projection (after variation) is also available.
Axial symmetry of the nuclear shape and time-reversal invariance are built-in
symmetries.

The program expands the neutron and proton wave functions on the cylindrical
harmonic oscillator (HO) basis. Expansion coefficients are determined by block
diagonalization of the HFB matrix, which is defined as the functional
derivative of the energy with respect to the neutron and proton densities.
Since the HFB matrix depends on the densities, and therefore on its own
eigenfunctions, the problem to solve is highly non-linear and requires an
iterative method (self-consistency). Suitable constraints are used to obtain
states with specific configurations such as deformations or temperature.

